add split validator node (validation node) running (#2345)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/04-run-split-validator-node.mdx

---
title: 'Run a split validator node'
description: How to run a split validator node
author: jason-w123
sidebar_position: 4
content_type: how-to
---

## Running split validators for Arbitrum chains

Split validators improve security and performance by separating validator responsibilities across multiple nodes. This guide explains how to set up a split validator configuration for Arbitrum chains by running a Nitro node (staker) and a validation node separately.

> Before you read this docs, please make sure you already walked through [run a validator](/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/02-run-validator-node.mdx) docs to get basic understanding of validator node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you read this doc, please ensure you have already walked through [run a validator](/run-arbitrum-node/more-types/02-run-validator-node.mdx) docs to understand the basics of a validator node.
		
```
